---
title: "Use Case #3 (Recovery)"
draft: false
---
Due to loss of network and communication capability from a Cyber
attack or earthquake, be able to access status of network (powerflows, voltage, etc) and
use DERs to control distribution system stability and power quality to improve operations
practices, and system hardening.

The Recovery use-case functions to enhance, increase the speed and safety of grid recovery. Recovery is used to reconfigure portions of the grid by opening/closing switches. The goal of the Recovery Phase of the Grid Resiliency and Intelligence Project (GRIP) is to leverage distributed energy resources (DER) to facilitate faster and safer electricity distribution network reconfiguration and recovery after a catastrophic network event. Current strategies include the use of utility crews to be deployed with mobile generation to facilitate switching, minimizing power surges, and, arcing when opening/closing switches.

In order to prevent large power surges, acing, and equipment damage during switching actions, DER will be employed to minimize the voltage difference across the ends of a switch. Additional tools that can be used to reduce the need for manned utility crews through the use of distributed energy resource (DER).  DER will be managed by a model-free online optimization algorithm, known as extremum seeking (ES).


### Description of the process/scenario:
Extremum Seeking (ES) is a model-free optimization and control approach that can be utilized online or offline. ES approximates gradient descent (in single and multiple dimensions). Through disturbance of system input (output of the ES), the ES algorithm estimates the gradient of an unknown objective function with respect to its control setpoint(s). The Extremum Seeking approach has been tested in hardware in the loop experiments and in live field tests.

The figure below shows a block diagram of the overall ES architecture for multiple 2D-ES controllers managing active and reactive power contributions of distributed energy resources (DERs). In this use case, the objective represents a distribution network, measurements of pertinent system states, and computation of a value that the 2D-ES controllers operate to minimize. A single 2D-ES controller is encircled by the red box, with its active power channel is encircled by the green box, and its reactive power channel is encircled by the blue box. In the figure below, LPF stands for lowpass filter, HPF stands for high pass filter, and INT denotes the integrator



Extremum Seeking (ES) is a model-free optimization and control approach that can be utilized online or offline. ES approximates gradient descent (in single and multiple dimensions). Through disturbance of system input (output of the ES), the ES algorithm estimates the gradient of an unknown objective function with respect to its control setpoint(s). The Extremum Seeking approach has been tested in hardware in the loop experiments and in live field tests.
