---
title: "NRECA Deployment"
date: 2022-12-31T17:12:57-08:00
draft: false
---
### Status: Completed 

A series of analytics and OMF.coop platform capabilities were developed over the course of the GRIP project. The OMF.coop platform serves over 176 utilities, universities and vendors. Linked below are the locations of the code and instructions for how to use it.

**(OMF Enhancement Release Code and Report**

(https://drive.google.com/file/d/1uU7dEJ1NXMqgkelMocfi6S5NEgsVpK1c/view?usp=sharing)

*NRECA plays role in conjunction with the Anticipate OMF.coop to GRIP use cases to provide a comprehensive grid intelligence*. The following information below explain the use case of the OMF deployment.

**OMF use-case Application Model**

OMF automatically checks if a model’s code or interface has been updated through the following:

-Using SHA-256 algorithm where hashes of a model’s .py  and .html files are saved in the model output data

-When viewing a saved model, the hashes in the output data are compared against the current hashes of the model .py and .html files

-If there is a mismatch, the user sees an unobtrusive flag that explains the model code or interface that has been changed

*Users have the option to re-run a model to see additional outputs that the new version of the model produces*
*Users may also continue to use their existing outputs if needed for their work*

**New OMF user-friendly features**

OMF now features a *new* sharing mechanism that gives model owners more control over who they share with. This new mechanism is supported by more strict user authorization checks across all of the OMF web application routes which *ensures more safety.* This application contains a publish feature with model-sharing feature  
that allows a model owner to share a read-only view of their model with specified users.

**OMF GRIP API Platform**

The following  step-by step process described below is for use-case of OMF-GRIP-API Platform:

  *Step 1*: Use Docker to serve a standalone web API of the OMF in any configuration, such as on a local network or on the internet (Docker and the underlying Gunicorn web server ensure that the API is reliable and simple to host). *Note*-  API can be consumed through any client interface. The API returns the results of an operation as JSON, a PNG, a ZIP, or plain text.

  *Step 2*:  Import and convert Milsoft WindMil CYMDIST, and MATPOWER files to run in GridLAB-D.

  *Step 3*: Run and visualize MATPOWER transmission and generation simulations.

  *Step 4*: Run NREL's system advisor model

  *Step 5*: Run LANL's General Fragility Mode

  *Step 6*: View and edit transmission and distribution feeders as local files

  **Characteristics of OMF API Platform**

-Built HTTP APIs for key OMF functionality

-Full test suite to insure API integrity

-Containerized OMF deployment enhanced to allow GRIP platform to control dependencies and performance platform in December 2018
